---
title: Scale
day: 1
date: 2019-12-08
img: scale.jpg
link: https://www.amazon.com/Scale-Universal-Growth-Organisms-Companies-dp-014311090X/dp/014311090X/
---

No matter the diversity of animals, cities, and companies, most of the
characteristics within these groups scale quantitatively with their
size. In a sense, a dog is 90% a scaled up version of a mouse.

The commonalities of complex systems give hope to finding a way to
understand why they behave in particular ways.

All processes require energy. The amount of energy that these
processes require to continue is their metabolic rate. Although we
primarily use this notion for living organism, we can expand it to
include cities and companies.

When energy gets used, it also produces a certain amount of entropy --
energy that doesn't do any useful work. This excess energy is the
cause of damage and degradation of the systems that produce it.

Most of the relationships related to scale do not relate in a linear
fashion. Just because something is twice the size of something else
doesn't mean it will need twice the energy.

Scaling relationships come in two varieties:

- Sublinear relationships decrease the need per capita as size
  increases.
- Superlinear relationships increase the need per capita as size
  increases.
  
A complex system is categorized by simple components who's actions add
up to more than the linear sum of their output. Often times, these
systems take on a life of their own outside of their individual
components. We are great examples of a complex system.

Simplicity enables complexity when combine with self organization. The
fractal nature of self organizing systems explains why properties
rarely scale linearly.

In biology the number 4 comes up again and again when related to
scale. As an organism's size increases, it's energy needs increase by
3/4. While the heart rate decreases by 1/4 of the size.

No system can sustain unbounded growth. This paints a grim future for
our economies and population that has grown without pause. The only
way we kept it growing for this long is through technological
innovation, but to sustain further growth the innovation needs to
happen even more rapidly. Once we hit the limit of our system, we will
either need a reset to start the growth again, or the entire system
will collapse in catastrophe.
