---
title: Getting Past No
day: 4
date: 2019-06-17
img: getting-past-no.jpg
link: https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Past-Negotiating-Difficult-Situations/dp/0553371312
---

Budding heads and arguing only leads to nobody being happy with a result of a
negotiation. The secret to coming up with an agreement that makes everyone happy
is re-framing the problem.

No matter how the other side approaches the negotiation, you should always try
to re-frame their statement into an open ended question that leads towards a
joint problem solving effort. This requires questions that can't be answered
with a simple yes or no. You must ask a "how", "why", "who", or "what" question.
These questions make the other side think because they can't have canned
answers. Starting them on a path of thinking about the problem, instead of going
by their play book, opens up the possibility of solutions.

Asking for advice after an attack can completely diffuse the attack and bring
the discussion back to the problem. Asking to double down on the problem in face
of stone wall can move the discussion forward despite and ultimatum. Asking for
open ended clarifications can show a trick while giving the other side a
graceful exit. 

Don't let the actions of others take your eye off the problem. If you must,
explain to them that you are trying to increase the size of the pie so everyone
gets a share they would be happy with. Make sure they know that you have as much
interest in them being happy as you do in making yourself happy. Cooperation
will only blossom is both of you see the path to a solution as join problem
solving.
